gh-88116: Enhance the inspect frame APIs to use the extended position information (#91531)
python/cpython: Doc/library/inspect.rst

      A :class:`dis.Positions` object containing the start line number, end line
      number, start column offset and end column offset associated with the
      instruction being executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   Return a named tuple instead of a tuple.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11
   Changed the return object from a namedtuple to a regular object (that is
   backwards compatible with the previous named tuple).

.. class:: Traceback

   .. attribute:: filename

      The file name associated with the code being executed by the frame this traceback
      corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: lineno

      The line number of the current line associated with the code being
      executed by the frame this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: function

      The function name that is being executed by the frame this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: code_context

      A list of lines of context from the source code that's being executed by the frame
      this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: index

      The index of the current line being executed in the :attr:`code_context` list.

   .. attribute:: positions

>       A tuple containing the start line number, end line number, start column offset and end column

Reviewer: oxford comma before "and".  here and above.

As positions also relates to `:class:dis.Positions`... why not consistently return that type in this field? How about being consistent and always having this be a `dis.Positions` instance so that people can use its field names.

If we don't do that here for performance reasons or similar, specifically mention that this is always a plain tuple but is compatible with the field indices of dis.Positions. people who want named fields could use `dis.Positions(*tb.positions)` on it.

Author: > As positions also relates to :class:dis.Positions... why not consistently return that type in this field? How about being consistent and always having this be a dis.Positions instance so that people can use its field names.

I was already returning one of these objects and I updated the `FrameInfo` class but not this one. Updated!

The interpreter stack
---------------------

> When the following functions return ":class:`FrameInfo` objects," each record is a
> :class:`FrameInfo` object. For backwards compatibility these objects allow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the following functions return
:class:`FrameInfo` objects. For backwards compatibility these objects allow
```
Less repetitive

.. class:: FrameInfo

   .. attribute:: frame

      The :ref:`frame object <frame-objects>` that the record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: filename

      The file name associated with the code being executed by the frame this record
      corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: lineno

      The line number of the current line associated with the code being
      executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: function

      The function name that is being executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: code_context

      A list of lines of context from the source code that's being executed by the frame
      this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: index

      The index of the current line being executed in the :attr:`code_context` list.

   .. attribute:: positions

      A :class:`dis.Positions` object containing the start line number, end line
      number, start column offset, and end column offset associated with the
      instruction being executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   Return a named tuple instead of a tuple.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11

>    Changed the return object from a namedtuple to a regular object (that is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Changed the return object from a named tuple to a regular object (that is
```
Consistent spelling

---------------------

> When the following functions return "frame records," each record is a

Reviewer 2: Maybe just remove the term "frame records" from the docs and only refer to FrameInfo directly.

:class:`FrameInfo` object. For backwards compatibility these objects allow
tuple-like operations on all attributes except ``positions``. This behavior
is considered deprecated and may be removed in the future.

.. class:: FrameInfo

   .. attribute:: frame

>       The frame object that the record corresponds to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The :ref:`frame object <frame-objects>` that the record corresponds to.
```
Link to https://docs.python.org/3.10/reference/datamodel.html#frame-objects

   .. attribute:: filename

      The file name associated with the code being executed by the frame this record
      corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: lineno

      The line number of the current line associated with the code being
      executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: function

      The function name that is being executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: code_context

      A list of lines of context from the source code that's being executed by the frame
      this record corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: index

>       The index of the current line being executed in the ``code_context`` list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The index of the current line being executed in the :attr:`code_context` list.
```

   .. attribute:: positions

>       A tuple containing the start line number, end line number, start column offset and end column

Reviewer 2: What about using different attributes for each of these? Returning a tuple directly feels like we might tie ourselves to an overly concrete format again in the future.

Author: Ok, I think we can reuse the dis.Positions namedtuple so we don't make importing inspect even slower with more dynamic class creation. We can also move that class elsewhere if we need to

      offset associated with the instruction being executed by the frame this record corresponds to.

.. versionchanged:: 3.5
   Return a named tuple instead of a tuple.

.. versionchanged:: 3.11
   Changed the return object from a namedtuple to a regular object (that is
   backwards compatible with the previous named tuple).

.. class:: Traceback

   .. attribute:: filename

      The file name associated with the code being executed by the frame this traceback
      corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: lineno

      The line number of the current line associated with the code being
      executed by the frame this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: function

      The function name that is being executed by the frame this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: code_context

      A list of lines of context from the source code that's being executed by the frame
      this traceback corresponds to.

   .. attribute:: index

>       The index of the current line being executed in the ``code_context`` list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The index of the current line being executed in the :attr:`code_context` list.
```

When the following functions return "frame records," each record is a
:term:`named tuple`

> ``FrameInfo(frame, filename, lineno, end_lineno, column, end_column, function, code_context, index)``.

Reviewer 2: hm, this would break users who unpack the tuple. Can we do that?

Author: Unclear, more closely to no. Check my comment on the issue.

Reviewer 2: What's the issue? #88166 looks unrelated.

Reviewer 2: Ah it's #88116 based on your branch name.

Author: Whoops! Sorry for the confusion :(

.. function:: getframeinfo(frame, context=1)

   Get information about a frame or traceback object.  A :class:`Traceback` object
   is returned.

   .. versionchanged:: 3.11

>       A :class:`Traceback` object is returned inspead of a named tuple.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      A :class:`Traceback` object is returned instead of a named tuple.
```
Though I'd prefer to remove this note, and instead add a note to the documentation for `Traceback`. Users of this function don't need to care about changes, since the change is backward compatible.
